
<style>
@media (min-width: 980px) {
    .md-nav, .md-sidebar {
      display: none!important;
    }
}
</style>

# figshare Downloads Measure

<div id="value-display"></div>
<strong>Description:</strong>
<div class="tile-1" style="text-align:center; color:black">
This metric shows the number of times one or all files in your Figshare item have been downloaded. For example, if you item has multiple files, if someone downloads one of the files, that will be counted as one download. If someone clicks the "Download all" button, that will be counted as one download. If there are three files in an item and someone downloads each file individually, the download count will be incremented by three.
</div>
<script>
document.getElementById('value-display').innerHTML = `
  <h2><strong>figshare/downloads/v1</strong></h2></br>
  <strong>Source <span class="tooltip"><i class="fa-solid fa-circle-info"></i> <span class="tooltiptext">Not all platforms use the same parameters to measure the same thing, so it is important to differentiate the platform we are collecting data from.</span></span> :</strong> Figshare </br>
  <strong>Type <span class="tooltip"><i class="fa-solid fa-circle-info"></i> <span class="tooltiptext">Not all measures represent the same event, some platforms report the number of people who accessed a publication (e.g. users, session), others the number of times a resource was seen (e.g. views). For clarity, each of the measures described here will include its type.</span></span> :</strong> downloads</br>
  <strong>Version <span class="tooltip"><i class="fa-solid fa-circle-info"></i> <span class="tooltiptext">Data providers and/or collectors may want to modify their definition of e.g. a view or a session. In order to ensure changes in these definitions are differentiated, we use versioning.</span></span> :</strong> 1
`;
</script>
